“Some claim that money is the root of all evil, yet money is a representation of something much deeper and corrupted, it is a symbol. Ask yourself this, what is the root of all money, what is the base, the foundation, what makes it tick? Money is a creation that was meant to allow an equitable trade of goods and services. Not to say that such a thing exists, no, instead it has been used as a form of power, and control. In essence, money equals time, time being the most valuable commodity of all. Any person's goal in seizing power is not to seize the simple assets of one's labours, as those can be lost easily, or can be utilized fully, yet time, time is rarely utilized fully, and has unwritten potential. As well as this time is what allows for control, if one controls time, they control craft, life, and so much more. If someone else owns your time, then you are a slave to their system, as much as you may not believe it. With this, let's get back to money, currency. Money is controlled in a capitalistic system by a select group of elites, and in communism, is controlled by a select group of elites, and in all other forms currently in use, utilized as a form of control by a few elites. This is to show that money is a means of power and control that we all willingly subscribe to. Funded by the amount of people who are unknowledgeable of alternatives. Yet what alternatives are there? Sadly with our current step in evolution I don't see there being one clear option. I say this with despair as currently the human brain has been hijacked by unnatural evolution, or what I would call negative evolution. It is like a vestigial structure in evolution, yet this structure seems to make a negative impact on a certain aspect of the species that is not easily seen or having an effect on reproduction allowing for its cancerous continuation. In humans this is our pleasure/pain system. We look for the next shiny thing, don't look at consequences, and don't debate all consequences, because nobody ever could. Yet we also have a cluster mentality and want to abide, humans like being controlled, we like order, and when in some streak of order we stick with it, for better or for worse. Until we as a species learn to understand the limits of our biology and the trickery that it operates on us we will not be free from the monster's grasps.”
