The brain is a conundrum to me, as it seems to act as a prison, a reliquary, a tool, and a hidden maestro, yet also as the imprisoned. It seems to be capable of harnessing consciousness and influencing it, yet not fully capable of controlling it directly. It appears to simply be able to send messages, which may sometimes be convoluted or abstract, to its hosted consciousness. Such as if I were to take my hand and place it upon a stove I would feel a sensation of great pain and flinch away from it instinctually. Yet although my brian knows of the great pain caused by it I may consciously decide to place my hand upon it again in defiance and my brain can only send me signals of pain to stop me but nothing more. The brain appears to be a harnesser of some other form of intelligence that I cannot yet identify. I can't seem to identify how the brain could create such an illusion as existence, and I can't deny that I am experiencing it whilst writing this letter. Yet in some ways it appears to be illusory. The way that I have come to grasp with it is in two schools of thought, one being that it is in fact some grand illusion concocted to give is the idea of thought, and that given that we are but the mind attempting to identify the mind we are not possibly capable of understanding it due to limitations on consciousness. Such that if anything came into view allowing us to question it fully that we may simply wipe it from our mind, or limit ourselves from never achieving it. Yet maybe the mind is some way a channeler of something more primitive, maybe what makes up the essence of consciousness is as much of a mystery as the creation of the universe itself. Where any school of thought is as correct as incorrect as no matter what its existence supersedes all logic, science, and ways of thought. In such a way that it is fully paradoxical. Maybe that is the answer, that even something so local as thought, something that I am undertaking in as I write this and as you read it, is just as paradoxical as existence in general.
