He sat up from a cold decrepit old chair of which I wasn't surprised to see cobwebs and then the man spoke. “It was cold that day. As it had been for all days seemingly before it. It was quite drab and bleak. All things seemed to be illuminated in some shade of grey, as all days had been before. There was a scent of sulfur and fury in the air of turbulence and chaos with a negative tone. There was gunpowder in the air still and smoke billowing from all angles. I guess that nobody had thought to tell them that not all revolution or evolution is positive. Conquest, Conquest it was! Oh in the good name of conquest, for God, for Gold, and ultimately for self. Oh but it is evolution they cried, it is right they cried. The wrong shall die and the right shall be victorious. None the wiser that it was in their fighting that an ultimate third party would win, nature.” The professor continued his lecture with fervent passion. “For what is God, For what is Gold, for what is Man, power, power, power. Money is equivalent to power, gold is equivalent to money, and God is seen as a source of all powers that be. What is it that we crave the most, what is it that Lucifer craved the most? Power, control, it is the original sin. Not that I am a man who believes in the christian faiths but nonetheless sin is an apparent principal of life. To do wrong against some natural law. It is beautiful as it has no real basis in universal law unless we give it one, and given our basis in power and sin we warp it. We may not have created Gods, and we certainly are not Gods, yet we have found quite a system to dress them up and appropriate them to match our needs.” A hand was swiftly raised by a young yellow haired boy in the back. He looked up at the professor with a smirk and decided to ask him what he thought was a quite cheeky question. “What exactly is the law supposed to be then, if we cannot have a universal law then what is Sin to be?” The professor steadfastly responded to this attack. “Who says that we don't have some universal truths? Perhaps we do not know God, but perhaps we can see him. Perhaps we can marvel at the works created by Gods or chance or statistics or whatever one may call it and observe some laws from that, unobstructed. What if we were to look into nature. What shall we see?” The student who was stunned by the response and the haste of which it was produced stuttered for a moment before responding. “Nature is brutal, chaotic, it is an evil thing and I wish no part in it. How can something so brutish be an example of a benevolent God? Why would some loving creator create a system of such suffering, of such trial, of such carnage?” The professor smiled almost faintly, sighed a long cold breath and continued. “What of nature is more brutal than our so-called civilized world? So the cheetah is to eat the gazelle, so maybe the gazelle is to escape and the cheetah to die of starvation. Nature itself seems to be balanced, it is one positive and a negative even if obscured. It is only from a small perception of facts or a personal ignorance of them that we seem to pick sides, that we seem to give merit to one and not the other. So perhaps nature is not brutal but perhaps it is life that is brutal.” At this point the boy knowing he was outmatched in this debate receded to his seat in the far back of the lecture hall and in his place a young red haired woman looking twenty two had stood to answer the remark. “Life is not brutal, we simply make it that way.” the woman retorts. “It is brutal because we think it to be, because our minds think it to be brutal as we are one of the unlucky ones stuck in it, trapped. I would assume that if I were some god, some entity floating above the universe as a whole that it would all look quite good.” At the usage of the word good and the universe, conversation and protest erupted, spearheaded by the young boy from before. “Good, how can you call mass murders good, how can you call children being born only to die good? How can you call the fact that animals must kill and eat eachother good? I may only be a human yet I see little good and many evils.” The woman quipped back a hardened steely response. “You only see what you wish to see, there is good as well, the lioness who is to get some fresh hunt brings it back to a starving pride and all is well. A penguin is saved from the clutches of death by a gust of wind that just so happens to allow it to move fast enough to avoid some predator. Good may happen in life more so than the bad.” All the while the professor sat back in his chair and reclined and watched as the students bicker over the nature of the universe and he was proud of the conversation but melancholy for it seemed that it was naturally heading nowhere. As such he decided to finally digress the answer after stoking the fire of debate for some time. “My dear students, is there not some other answer. I was once told by a man a quote that shall live with me for all of my life, and one that I hope shall live with you as well. ‘No good thing comes from a polar.’ As I heard each one of you believes that in some way the universe must be good, or it must be bad.Each is a polar view, it is positive or negative. The very fabric of the universe is not polar, it is fluid in its nature. We use systems of measurement to attempt to understand a system at a certain time but it is all still probabilities on a scale that we could not fathom.” At this statement murmur erupted once more. The chambers were full of the echoes of discussion and the professor listened intently to each trailing conversation. Eventually it had appeared that three schools of thought were formed inside of the chambers and each one chose a candidate to vouch for them as a collective. The first group led by a scrawny man wearing a red beanie of sorts and decorated with many rings stood up and approached the professor. “I have decided that the universe is random to each. That it is cold and indifferent to each thing and that it is a lottery of random proportions with no goal.” Next the leader from the second group approached the professor. This time approaching as a full group of mostly young women. Of what groups the speaker was chosen on seniority and no other factor as each individual seemingly had little discernible qualities from one another. “I believe that the universe is responsive, that it is a lottery but we may count the cards. That by understanding it one may have some advantage. That it may be random in order but that we may help ourselves ride it at the least and at the best control it in some minute sense.” With the group of girls seemingly pleased with themselves the third group approached to offer theory. This group consisted of an odd collection of members who seemingly were all of alternative style with no fit pattern. “We believe that it is chaotic. We believe that it has some order to it but that it appears random to us, and that it is not changeable. For if it is chaotic and we are only given a short sequence we have no true way to understand it or at what point it converges.” At this the professor looked at all three groups and asked them if they were each content in their theory after hearing the others proposed. Of which all but one outlier stuck with their position. This one outlier exited from the back of the classroom and was a member of the first group who was quite discontent. He ran up angrily to the front and stared down the professor and began to speak his beliefs violently. “They are all wrong! All of the groups, all of the people, wrong wrong wrong. None of them have listened to you. No good thing can come from a polar and each of their systems still rely on some polar. They keep saying it is changeable or unchangeable, or that it is random or chaotic, and little have they seen that it can be both! After all, wouldn't a chaotic system that is infinite look random from any set point? Equally so wouldn't there be things that are close to immutable, such as the idea that if I drop an apple it shall fall, but aren't there not also odd exceptions to this rule? Why couldn't it be that when I drop it some gust of wind appears from one of the windows powerful enough to push it upwards or that gravity itself fails on us, that time stalls. What if we can change things but only slightly, even our responses to things. What if it is a mixture of every theory ever conceived, of each of the theories you all conceived.” The professor looked at the man who was obviously being driven mad by the idea of it all and getting aggressive and smiled a faint glimmer of a smile. He stood up briskly and to the surprise of each of the students hugged the lunatic of a student who was still raving under his breath to himself and all with a good ear to hear. The professor asked his students a follow up question. “Is he right?” Of which the students all looked around waiting for someone else to answer but the shift of responsibility eventually made its way back to the professor after walking across the minds of the entire hall. “Yes, he is correct.” he chirped. “What is life but the summation of life, what is existence but the summation of existence. For something to work or to matter universally it must be shown at all levels universally. Even in the abstract.” The crowd of rowdy youths had gone silent at this, each relating it to their experience when one piped up a question. “Well then what is it professor, what is the universe, good, or bad?” The professor replied “Neutral it is both at all times and either if you make it so if you have the choice to do so.” The student proceeded with his interrogation. “Why would a god create something that causes us to suffer at random?”The professor replied “The answer to that is paradoxical, in fact the answer to almost all universal questions is paradoxical, that is to say recursive. Imagine there was a God, a creator being. One would willingly have to ask where he came from, what energy or matter or force created him, to which there is no answer, yet here we are to exist, so something must have come from nothing in one way or another, so we already know from the fact that we are around to know that things exist outside of our realm of knowledge and logic. Existence itself of anything defies all classical logic.” After the dust had settled from the professors attack a multitude of religious students sat puzzled, some half of them left the hall, and the other sat there thinking of rebuttals, excuses, anything whatsoever they could cling onto, yet there was no ledge to support them, and they fell. Yet one student persisted and he barked at the professor “To what laws should we follow then, you talk of sin but if all is neutral what is and what is not sin? Wouldn't I have no reason to attempt to be some great symbol of goodness and instead a grand reason to devote myself to great evils?” The professor sighed and watched the rays of light that scatter along the walls of the room for a moment before responding. “It is a shame and a fault of our society that the wicked seem to prevail in most circumstances, but it is also a fact that they are to be pitied, for they are misguided and have been coerced into this lifestyle one way or another by the universe itself. We as individuals forget how much is not up to human control, we punish people, not things. We punish a murderer yet why did he murder, was he not deranged from birth, did something make him tick, I have pity upon those men and so shall you.It is in the same way that I see great evil, there is a idea called the golden rule, it states that one should do unto others as they wish done onto themselves. This rule  is a good basepoint for creating laws, yet a better one is to have freedom to do whatever one wishes just as long as it does not have some negative effect on another individual. Yet knowing these at a grand scale is quite difficult for the long term outcomes of actions are unknowns and tomorrow is but a hypothesis. Yet we can try, and we can live virtuous lives and understand the human condition and the limitations of it, and the limitations of the world, and we can grow them, push boundaries and achieve enlightenment or moksha” The students looked puzzled and concerned. The ill student in the back made some attempt to condemn himself as he spoke. “I have committed many sins throughout my life, some atrocious in the process of living, how can I repent, how can I be redeemed.” To which the professor responded “Did you do it with ultimate power to make some other change or to see all outcomes?” To which the student responded quietly “No.” So the professor prodded him to ask more. “Do you know what condition you have?” The student shook his head. At which the professor answered “All of which you have described to me is a symptom of being human, of being part of this system, both good and bad at moments. You did not have full knowledge back then, nor do you now. As such, who could have expected you to act differently? Think of yourself as a robot acting upon orders, you did not make the environment, or yourself, or any part of it including the orders, you may think that you have but it is all response to some stimuli bossing us around as such no man is truly evil, but instead we are all willed into rough conditions.” The wretched man responded, “But what if I am the creator, I own dominion over my mind, I can do better, I will do better, I shall I swear it to you I shall!” The professor looked at the eyes of the man masking great pains and softly affirmed him, “You may change your life to make yourself a better man, this is true, and by understanding these choices even slightly you have done so already. We have been left with some provisions to use and we are not completely off the hook of existence in neutrality as we are not off the hook to ourselves. No matter what we do we will be wretched if we think of ourselves as such, we will be cross and sour and grow bitter and melancholy and secluded. We can only do a human equivalent of perfection, but we must aim for that for we know nothing else to make us have hope, to have faith but false idols and beliefs. We must cling to the idea of being a positive force however that may come to fruition, and it will be misguided. We will stumble on our walk before getting anywhere. But the important part is that we try. No matter how tragic and desperate our situation is, that is what makes us truly human.” The sickly man turned to face his peers, they faced him now with the same eyes, that of a saddened person who has seen too much. One who is conscious of their own mortality, one of longing and of melancholy, one of so many tumultuous emotions of experiencing being human for the first time. It was not without sin, nor was it devoid of suffering, but instead it was a deep understanding of a place in it all, and of the very fabric of each of their existence, and they were freed.
